(upbeat whistling)
Hello everyone, and welcome to the first video.
In this video I'm gonna get you set up with Flexbox.
I wanna make sure that your comfortable
with the markup that we're going to be using.
As we as comfortable with the two
fundamental concepts of flex container and flex item.
So, what do we got here?
We've got a div class container,
inside of that I have a whole bunch of boxes.
So this is going to be our flex container
and each of these are going to be our flex items.
Now these don't have to be divs,
they can be really anything you want:
images, sections, paragraph tags, whatever you really want.
But for the case of simplicity here,
I've just done plain old divs.
I've given them classes just so I can style them,
but again that's not totally necessary.
In the CSS here I've just got some neuro lines,
got my border box again not necessary for Flexbox.
This right here just gives it some basic styling as well,
some colors for the background there.
So if I give a refresh here this is what I've got.
We just got div all the way across each one is
sort of stacked on top of each other.
Now we can, on line 31 here we're going to go ahead
and start writing our flexbox.
The way that we do that is that we define
the container as display flex.
Now that's really important because you might
be coming to this thinking, okay we have display block,
inline, inline block, and a couple of
other kind of edge case ones.
And this is a totally new way to think
about laying out your website.
So if you really come at this at the perspective of
something like, I'm bringing my floats here,
I'm bringing my widths and I'm bringing my percentage.
We sort of have to put that aside and kind of take this
into something that is new to us.
So, if I set that to be display flex and give
us refresh, watch what happens.
Okay, so what happened there is my container here--
let me put a border on it, 10px golden rod.
Give it a save.
You see that the flex container it goes
all the way across the entire page.
And that's similar to block level elements.
However, we also have one called inline flex and inline flex
is just like an inline element, like a span or something.
It'll really just kind of wrap around the content and
only take about the width that it needs.
I'm going to bring the back to flex and refresh.
Our flex container goes all the way across and by defining
this container as display flex, what happens is
automatically these divs right here become flex items.
The relationship between the mediate children
of the flex container makes these divs flex items.
We don't have to do anything special, we don't
have to make it say display flex item on them.
They are just automatically turned into flex items.
One last thing I want to kind of get you set up on;
in the next video we're going to be
talking about axis's and flex direction.
When I first learned it it tripped me up a little
because when we flipped the direction
things started stretching around for me.
What I want to do is that when you're working with Flexbox
it's handy to have a box that at least has some sort of
hight on it, just so that we can visualize what's going on.
In your real world websites the hight would come from
the actual content that takes up your elements.
But I want to go ahead and just say hight 100VH.
Now if your ar not familiar with VH,
that stands for view port hight.
And what that will do is it will just
make the container stretch the entire hight.
It's kind of like hight 100%
It's just a new way to say it.
That really has nothing to do with Flexbox.
It's just a nice way for us to get a
100% hight on our div here.
When we resize vertically we don't really
have to worry about any 100% hight hacks.
That's just getting set up, one quick review.
We've got our flex container, as well as our flex items.
The next one we're going to be taking a look at
sort of a fundamental idea of axis's and flex direction.
(upbeat whistling)